---
layout: post
title:      "A Third of the Way Through"
date:       2018-04-30 14:35:06 +0000
permalink:  a_third_of_the_way_through
---


Having now completed one third of the curriculum, it's getting easier to shake the self-doubt. Completing and passing the CLI Data Gem assessment was a much needed confidence boost because up until that point, I was convinced I knew nothing and was merely fluking my way through the course. Howard DeVennish assessed my walk-through. Not only was he an incredible source of calming energy, his knowledge and insight gifted me at the right time. I pushed my assessment back one week because my fourth (and last allowed) 1:1 coach told me I perhaps was not ready to present. This, unsurprisingly, terrified me. I am a confident person and was never one to get stage fright. Having spent countless hours on stage performing comedy and musical theater, it was uncharacteristic of me to be anxious. It's a real testament to how starkly different this experience is to anything I have ever done. It is very far removed from how I typically use my brain or have ever studied in the past. (These two months have been tougher than my years at law school!) I am continually pushing myself on this journey but I thoroughly enjoy it. I was so nervous the day of the assessment I thought I was going to vomit. The assessment was actually quite enjoyable, despite my prefuse sweating. It was nice to present something I had worked so hard on and it certainly was beneficial to learn about aspects of my code I didn't understand but rather just employed because I had seen it done in other CLIs.

My relationship with coding and certainly this course has changed. I now know that I will not be going full throttle for the next four months. I know there are people who go full speed ahead for the duration of the course and regain their social lives and catch up on sleep, once they've graduated. But I also know that that is not me. I am lucky to do this out of enjoyment but also still have my social life and work as high priorities. I am still on track to finish within the six months but I am being kind to myself. As an insomniac already, any sleep I can get is important so I try to give myself the best chance at that, as often as possible. I also know that I am a morning person and do my best learning and information retention before midday. I make it a point to get out of the house on weekends and bike to 205 Hudson (my base WeWork) so I can code in a bright and refreshing space. After work, as often as I can, I will bike there too so I can get a few hours done before unwinding at home.

May will be a tougher month for me because my parents are visiting from Australia and we have a trip to New Orleans booked. It is also my birthday so I will be spending some time with friends. I am prepared to fall behind in the course a little but as I have done in the past after trips away, I will catch up once my calendar frees up again. This trip to New Orleans is the last vacation I have booked this year so I will more likely than not take some PTO days to work through this course more concetratedly. Having WeWork as a resource to escape the confines of my bedroom has been incredibly beneficial. The space is very inspiring. I feel surrounded by thought-generation and it makes me proud to be a millennial. This journey for me is so much more than coding. It is the stimulation of learning something new, meeting new people and being inspired to challenge myself beyond anything I could imagine. I feel pride in myself and the Taurus in me loves proving people, including me, wrong as I continue to move forward and delve deeper into the abyss of programming. 
